Weather Data Prediction Using Linear Regression
Overview
This project applies Supervised Learning techniques, specifically Linear Regression, to predict precipitation levels based on various weather attributes. The dataset used contains historical weather data, which is cleaned and preprocessed before training a machine learning model.

Machine Learning Approach
Supervised Learning: The model is trained on labeled weather data, where the goal is to predict Precipitation in Inches based on multiple weather features.
Linear Regression: A regression model is used to learn the relationship between input weather attributes (temperature, humidity, wind speed, etc.) and precipitation levels.
Steps in the Code
1. Data Cleaning & Preprocessing
Loads weather data from weather.csv using pandas.
Drops unnecessary columns (Events, Date, etc.) to keep only relevant features.
Replaces missing or trace values ('T' and '-') with 0.0.
Saves the cleaned dataset as weather_final.csv.
2. Training the Linear Regression Model
Reads the cleaned data (weather_final.csv).
Defines X (input features) and Y (target variable: PrecipitationSumInches).
Splits data and reshapes target values for training.
Trains a Linear Regression model using scikit-learn.
3. Making Predictions
Takes a sample input (temperature, humidity, wind speed, etc.).
Predicts precipitation in inches using the trained model.
4. Data Visualization
Precipitation Trend Graph: A scatter plot showing precipitation levels over time.
Feature Correlation Graphs: Visualizes the relationship between different weather attributes (temperature, humidity, etc.) and precipitation.
Technologies Used
Python
Pandas (Data Cleaning & Processing)
NumPy
Scikit-Learn (Machine Learning)
Matplotlib (Data Visualization)
Results & Insights
The model provides precipitation predictions based on historical weather patterns.
Visualizing correlations between weather features helps understand trends affecting precipitation.
Linear regression works well for trend analysis but may not capture complex weather dependencies, making it suitable for basic forecasting.
How to Run
Install required dependencies:
bash
Copy
Edit
pip install pandas numpy scikit-learn matplotlib
Run the Python script in Jupyter Notebook or any Python environment.
Modify the input values to test different weather conditions.
